
.TH direwolf 1 "September 2014" "direwolf(1)" "Ham Radio Applications"

.SH NAME
\fBdirewolf\fR \- Soundcard TNC for APRS

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBdirewolf\fR [\fBoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Dire Wolf is a software "soundcard" modem/TNC and APRS encoder/decoder. It can
be used stand-alone to receive APRS messages, as a digipeater, APRStt gateway,
or Internet Gateway (IGate). It can also be used as a virtual TNC for other
applications such as APRSIS32, UI-View32, Xastir, APRS-TW, YAAC, UISS, Linux
AX25, SARTrack, and many others.

.SH OPTIONS

.PP
\fB\-c \fR\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.RS 4
Configuration file name.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-r \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Audio sample rate, per sec.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-n \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Number of audio channels, 1 or 2.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-b \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Bits per audio sample, 8 or 16.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-B \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Data rate in bits/sec.  Standard values are 300, 1200, 9600. If < 600, AFSK tones are set to 1600 & 1800. If > 2400, K9NG/G3RUH style encoding is used. Otherwise, AFSK tones are set to 1200 & 2200.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-d \fR\fB\fIselector\fR\fR
.RS 4
Debug communication with client application, one of:
.RS 2
a = AGWPE network protocol.
.br
k = KISS serial port.
.br
n = KISS network.
.br
u = Display non-ASCII text in hexadecimal.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\fB\-t \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Text colors. 1=normal, 0=disabled.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-p \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Enable pseudo terminal for KISS protocol.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-x \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Send Xmit level calibration tones.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-U \fR\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.RS 4
Print UTF-8 test string and exit.
.RE

.SH "AUTHORS"

Dire Wolf is Copyright \(co 2011-2014 John Langner WB2OSZ\&.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.br
This manual page is Copyright \(co 2014 Iain R. Learmonth\&.
.br
.PP
This manual page was written for the Debian system (but may be used by others)\&.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or (at your option) any later version published by the Free Software Foundation\&.
.PP
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in
/usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL-2\&.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

aclients(1), decode_aprs(1), ll2utm(1), text2tt(1), tt2text(1), utm2ll(1)

.sp

